international trainees and teachers new draft (#402)
DFE-Digital/get-into-teaching-content: content/international-candidates.md

  - UK Ancestry Visa
---

Find out how to train to become a teacher in England.

> [Already a teacher? Come to England to teach](/international-candidates#already-a-teacher-teach-in-england).

Reviewer: Content wise this is fine but on the page it feels a bit odd being squished between the hero and the following `h2`:

![Screenshot from 2021-04-09 11-52-35](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/128088/114170040-3f9f1b00-992a-11eb-81aa-4a262f73ddfd.png)

Could this be another CTA in the right column perhaps?

<p class="call-to-action__action">
  <a href="https://beta-adviser-getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/">Get an <span>adviser</span></a>
</p>

### Apply for a place

<p class="call-to-action__action">
  <a href="https://www.gov.uk/find-postgraduate-teacher-training-courses">Find a postgraduate teacher training <span>course</span></a>
</p>

Or [search for an undergraduate teacher training course](https://digital.ucas.com/search).

### What qualifications you can get

#### Qualified teacher status (QTS)

QTS allows you to apply for paid teaching jobs in all schools in England.

You need QTS to work in many English schools, but it’s desirable in all schools.

#### PGCE with QTS

You can do a course which combines QTS with a Postgraduate Certificate of Education (PGCE). This includes some academic study.

#### PGCEi

You do not necessarily have to be in England to study with an English institution. You can do an international Postgraduate Certificate of Education (PGCEi) outside the UK.

A PGCEi will help you develop your teaching skills and knowledge.

> However, it does not lead to QTS and will not qualify you to teach in schools in England which require QTS.

Reviewer: I'm not sure about this but without a comma there's a hint of ambiguity as to whether all schools in England require QTS or some do and you'd only be excluded from them.

```suggestion
However, it does not lead to QTS and will not qualify you to teach in schools in England, which require QTS.
```

> However, it does not lead to QTS and will not qualify you to teach in schools in England which require QTS.

Author: ```suggestion
However, it does not lead to QTS. This means you will not be able to teach in schools which require QTS. 
```

* to [get the right visa or status](/international-candidates#get-the-right-visa-or-status)

It is also helpful to have a teaching qualification from your own or another non-UK country, or to get '[qualified teacher status](/international-candidates#consider-getting-qualified-teacher-status)'.

### Get the right visa or status

You'll need to [get the right visa or status to work in the UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/teach-in-england-if-you-qualified-outside-the-uk/teach-in-england-if-you-qualified-outside-the-uk#visas-and-immigration).

Some job offers allow you to apply for a ‘skilled worker visa’. Otherwise, you may be eligible for another type of visa.

You may have a pre-existing right to work in the UK, such as settled or pre-settled status under the [EU Settlement Scheme](https://www.gov.uk/settled-status-eu-citizens-families) or [indefinite leave to remain in the UK](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/indefinite-leave-to-remain-in-the-uk).

[If you're an Irish citizen you do not need a visa](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/common-travel-area-guidance).

### Consider getting qualified teacher status

> You need 'qualified teacher status' (QTS) to teach in many state schools in England.

Reviewer: Isn't it all state schools?

Author: i think you're right - will double check with policy

> You need 'qualified teacher status' (QTS) to teach in many state schools in England.

Author: ```suggestion
You need 'qualified teacher status' (QTS) to teach in state schools in England.
```

Fees may be higher for international trainees but you may be able to [get financial support](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/train-to-teach-in-england-non-uk-applicants/train-to-teach-in-england-non-uk-applicants#financial-support-for-non-uk-applicants-for-unsalaried-teacher-training-in-england).

Contact providers before you [apply](#apply-for-a-place) to get their advice about eligibility and the application process.

#### The right visa or status

You need to [get the right visa or status to study in the UK](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/train-to-teach-in-england-non-uk-applicants/train-to-teach-in-england-non-uk-applicants#visas-and-immigration).

You usually need a confirmed offer on a course to apply for a visa.

[If you're an Irish citizen you do not need a visa](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/common-travel-area-guidance).

#### To pass certain checks

Your training provider will check you’re suitable for teaching in terms of your health, whether you're safe to work with children and your level of maths and English.

### Get support

> You can get an adviser for one-to-one support.

Reviewer: Is this all applicants or only those for key subjects?

Reviewer 2: For international candidates who aren't returners? All applicants. If they were a returner, the key subjects triage would apply.

Your adviser can help you get a 'statement of comparability' showing [how your overseas qualifications compare to UK qualifications](https://enic.org.uk/Qualifications/SOC/Default.aspx).

<p class="call-to-action__action">

>   <a href="https://adviser-getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/">Get an <span>adviser</span></a>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <a href="/tta-service">Get an <span>adviser</span></a>
```

>   <a href="https://beta-adviser-getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/">Get an <span>adviser</span></a>

Reviewer 2: Need to update to /tta-service as the URL

</p>

### Apply for a place

<p class="call-to-action__action">
  <a href="https://www.gov.uk/find-postgraduate-teacher-training-courses">Find a postgraduate teacher training <span>course</span></a>
</p>

Or [search for an undergraduate teacher training course](https://digital.ucas.com/search).

### If you cannot come to England

You do not necessarily have to be in England to study with an English institution. You can do an international Postgraduate Certificate of Education (PGCEi) outside the UK.

A PGCEi will help you develop your teaching skills and knowledge.

However, it does not lead to 'qualified teacher status'. This means you will not be able to teach in [the types of schools which require qualified teacher status](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/qualified-teacher-status-qts#overview).

## Already a teacher? Teach in England

Teach in England and you’ll benefit from working in a world-class education system.

> You’ll earn a [competitive salary](https://getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/salaries-and-benefits), get supported in your professional development and have varied job opportunities.

Reviewer 2: /salaries-and-benefits

Not looking to teach in England? Consider teaching in [Wales](https://www.discoverteaching.wales/), [Scotland](https://teachinscotland.scot/) or [Northern Ireland](https://www.education-ni.gov.uk/articles/initial-teacher-education-courses-northern-ireland).

### What you need to start teaching

To teach in England you need:

* teaching skills and experience
* to pass criminal and professional safeguarding checks (these will be organised by your employer)

> * to [get the right visa or status](/international-candidates#get-the-right-visa-or-status)

Reviewer 2: I've seen links that just use the # and then the id, whereas this one has the URL as well. Which is best practice/correct @peteryates

Reviewer: When on the same page just the `#id`

[If you're an Irish citizen you do not need a visa](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/common-travel-area-guidance).

### Consider getting qualified teacher status

[You need 'qualified teacher status' (QTS) to teach in many schools in England](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/qualified-teacher-status-qts#overview).

It's not a requirement in all [types of schools](https://www.gov.uk/types-of-school), such as academy schools, free schools, private schools and independent schools. However, having QTS can help your application.

If you’re a qualified teacher from outside the UK you can [work as a teacher in England for up to 4 years without QTS](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/recruit-teachers-from-overseas#employing-overseas-teachers-without-qts-the-4-year-rule).

[Apply for QTS if you trained outside the UK](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/qualified-teacher-status-qts).

### Search for a job

<p class="call-to-action__action">
  <a href="https://teaching-vacancies.service.gov.uk/?utm_source=int_teacher_recruitment&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=AY21-22">Search for a teaching <span>job</span></a>
</p>

### Get support if you're qualified to teach maths, physics or modern languages

> If you’re an international qualified teacher of maths, physics, or modern foreign languages at secondary school age, you can get one-to-one support with:

Reviewer: This doesn't read right to me, 'internationally-qualified' perhaps?

Reviewer 2: I agree w/ Pete

* the application process, such as writing a personal statement and preparing for an interview
* accessing courses to enhance your subject knowledge
* finding teaching vacancies

<p class="call-to-action__action">

>   <a href="https://adviser-getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/">Get an <span>adviser</span></a>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <a href="/tta-service">Get an <span>adviser</span></a>
```

>   <a href="https://beta-adviser-getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/">Get an <span>adviser</span></a>

Reviewer 2: Needs updating

</p>

### Find out what salary you can earn

> Schools have some flexibility on [salary](https://getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/salaries-and-benefits). It varies by region and your level of skill, experience and qualifications.

Reviewer 2: /salaries-and-benefits

There are [specific salary requirements for a skilled worker visa](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/teach-in-england-if-you-qualified-outside-the-uk/teach-in-england-if-you-qualified-outside-the-uk#visas-and-immigration).

### Learn about life as a teacher in England

> [Read other teachers’ stories](https://getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/my-story-into-teaching) and research the [English curriculum](https://www.gov.uk/national-curriculum) and [teachers’ standards](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/teachers-standards).

Reviewer 2: /my-story-into-teaching

A PGCEi will help you develop your teaching skills and knowledge.

> However, it does not lead to QTS. This means you will not be able to teach in schools which require QTS. 

Author: change to: This means you will not be qualified to teach in state schools.
